# Structure and function of the processor
## Storage
- **RAM** - Random Access memory is a form of computer memory which is really fast in order to read and write data of programs that are currently running, these programs use memory fro data that will be written and read very quickly but not so quickly as to reqiure space in the cache. RAM is used instead of cache because of it being a lot less money per MB but even ram is much more expesive per MB than Hard Drives. RAM uses flash memory a memory that uses dynamic random access memory (DRAM); DRAM consists of capacitors and transistors which causes it to be volitle.     

- **ROM** - Read Only Memory is specifically for storing data that will not be changed for example the BIOS for bootup and unchanging programs in embedded systems. It usually is a smaller size due to it usually containing smally very basic and optimized programs thsi is all possible because unlike RAM, ROM is non-volitile. 

- **Optical Storage** - Optical storage is the storage of data on an optically readable medium. Data is recorded by making marks in a pattern that can be read back with the aid of light, usually a beam of laser light precisely focused on a spinning optical disc. A main Example of this is CDs which have a low amount of storage compared to other froms such as Hard Drives which is a magnetic form of storage. 

- **Magnetic Storage** - Magnetic storage is a type of storage which uses a very precise magnetic to make small dents in metal which can be read back making it non-volitile. Hard Drives the main form of magnetic storage is relativley cheap per terabyte of data. Hovever due to is moving parts is less durable.

- **Solid State Drive** - SSDs use switches called floating gate transistors. These create a special cage (the gate) that traps the electron flow within it. This gate effect continues whether there is electricity in the system or not, and so storage remains when the power is removed. SSDs are much more durable due to their lack of moving parts although they are more expensive. SSDs are faster than Hard Drives

- **Virtual storage** - This is when there isn't enough RAM and therefore it uses the slower primary storage. It's an area of secondary storage temporarily designated as RAM in case of the RAM becmoming overloaded.

## Inside the Processor
### Registers
- **PC** -  The **Program Counter** holds the memory address of the next instruction to be fetched from primary memory.

- **MAR** - The memory address register holds the address of the current instruction that is to be fetched from memory, or the address in memory to which data is to be transferred.

- **MDR** - The memory data register holds the contents found at the address held in the MAR, or data which is to be transferred to primary memory.

- **CIR** - The current instruction register holds the instruction that is currently being decoded and executed.

- **ACC** – The holds the data being processed and the results of processing.

- **CU** -

- **ALU** -

- **Status Registar** - 

### Buses
- **Data Bus** - This is used to transfer data from the CPU to the rest of the of the computer usually the RAM.

- **Address Bus** - This carries the address of the location to which the data in the data bus should be delivered. The address and the data travel in tandem to each of the locations in turn until the component being visited recognises its address, it then grabs the data that is being transported.

- **Control Bus** – Previously we learnt that one of the components of the processor was the Control Unit (CU), whose job is to control and coordinate the operations of the rest of the processor. It can only do this if it can send commands to the different components of the system. The control bus is used to carry these control signals.

