# Applications generation
## Application Software
Application software is **used by the end-user to perform one specific task**. 
## Transators
A tanslator converts **high level code into low level code**, low level code being a language the computer hardware understands.
<br>
**Machine code = Object code**

### Compiler
Compilers translates the entirety of a the code being compiled at once, this allows it to see if there are any errors in the code before it is run. Compiling furthermore allows for code to be mad more effeicent as the computer has time to make it more efficent. When any changes are made the entire code has to be recompiled. **Compiled code is specific to particular processor types and operating systems.** Code can be run **without a translator being present.**

### Interpreter
Interpreters translate line by line meaning they **don't require any time before running** the program but can be **less efficent and thus slower** while running. This also means the code **requires an interpreter every time its run.** The code can be executed on a range of platforms. Finally an interpreter is ideal when code that hasn't been debugged needs testing.

### Assembler
Assemblers are platform specific as they are dependent on the instruction set of the processor in the computer. Assemblers translate assembly code into machine code. Each line of assembly code is equivelent to almost one line of machine code.

feature |Assembler|Compiler|Interpreter
--|--------|-----------|---------
advantages|easier human understanding, memory effiecent, speed of execution is faster, requires fewer instructions to get the same result|no initial translation at run time, faster execution, code is optimised, original source coed is kept secret|code will run until it finds error which makes development easier, code doesn't need to be recompiled when coed is changed,easy for beginners
disadvantages|takes more time to program in, difficult to remember the syntax, lack of portability.|program will not run with an error making it harder to debug, code needs to be recompiled after every change, designed for a specific processor| translation is required at run time, speed of execution is slower, code not optimised, source code required.
