# System Software
**System Software** -Systems software is software that governs the computer system. 

Purpose:
controls the hardware, including any peripherals allows other programs (applications) to run provides an interface for the user to interact with the computer maintains the system There are two kinds of systems software: operating systems utilities Utility software - Utility software helps maintain the system. Utility software includes: encryption software defragmentation software data compression softwarebackup software

- **Custom Software** - Customized software  is software that is specially developed for some specific organization or other user. As such, it can be contrasted with the use of software packages developed for the mass market,  such as commercial off-the-shelf software, or existing free software.

- **Generic software** - Software that can perform many different tasks and is not limited to one particular application. For example, a spreadsheet application is generic because it is useful for multiple purposes without modification, such as a calculating tool for engineers or a finance tool for accountants.

## OS
### Types of OS
- **Distributed OS** - this is type of OS that is run on multiple processor allowing it to distribute tasks.
- **Embedded OS** - this is an OS that preforms a small range of specific task on a sungle device which allows it consume less power.
### Components
#### Kernal
The firmware and device drivers, the kernel provides the most basic level of control over all of the computer's hardware devices. It manages memory access for programs in the RAM, it determines which programs get access to which hardware resources and it organizes the data for long-term non-volatile storage with file systems on such media as disks, tapes, flash memory.
##### Interrupts
Interrupts provide a computer with a way of automatically saving local register contexts, and running specific code in response to events.
#### Networking
Currently most operating systems support a variety of networking protocols, hardware, and applications for using them. This means that computers running dissimilar operating systems can participate in a common network for sharing resources such as computing, files, printers, and scanners using either wired or wireless connections. 
#### Security
The operating system must be capable of distinguishing between requests which should be allowed to be processed, and others which should not be processed, while some systems may simply distinguish between "privileged" and "non-privileged",.
#### User Interface
The user interface views the directory structure and requests services from the operating system that will acquire data from input hardware devices, such as a keyboard, mouse or credit card reader, and requests operating system services to display prompts, status messages and such on output hardware devices, such as a video monitor or printer. 

The two most common forms of a user interface have historically been the command-line interface, where computer commands are typed out line-by-line, and the graphical user interface, where a visual environment (most commonly a WIMP) is present.

