# Programming techniques
### Basic Programming Techniques
- **Sequence** is the order in which instructions occur and are processed.
- **Selection** determines which path a program takes when it is running using conditions.
- **Branching** - A branch is an instruction in a computer program that can cause a computer to begin executing a different instruction sequence and thus deviate from its default behavior of executing instructions in order.
- **Iteration** is the repeated execution of a section of code when a program is running.
<Br>
There are two types of iteration:
  
- **definite iteration** - count-controlled iteration
- **indefinite iteration** - condition-controlled iteration
### Recursion VS Iteration
- **Recursion** - Simply it is when you make your code (or part of it) call itself creating a loop which can be ended by a condition stopping it from calling itself. 
- **Iteration** - This is when a loop is used to process variable or output something until the desired result is reach or the loop has ended.
#### Key Differences between Recursion and Iteration
- A conditional statement decides the termination of recursion while a control variable’s value decide the termination of the iteration statement (except in the case of a while loop).
- Infinite recursion can lead to system crash whereas, infinite iteration consumes CPU cycles.
- Recursion repeatedly invokes the mechanism, and consequently the overhead, of method calls. This can be expensive in both processor time and memory space while iteration doesn’t.
- Recursion makes code smaller while iteration makes it longer.

### Global and Local Variables
- **Global Variables** - In computer programming, a global variable is a variable with global scope, meaning that it is visible throughout the program. Practically this means at any point in the script you can reference it.
```python
  def a_function(parameter):
    global parameter
    parameter=':/'
```
- **Local Variable** - In computer science, a local variable is a variable that is given local scope. Practically this means that they can only be referenced in the block they are made in for example a userdefined function.
```python
def a_function(parameter):
  parameter=':/'
  return parameter
```
