# Computational Methods
The first stage of problem solving is identifying wether or not the problem can be computed, meaning it can be solved within a realistic finite amount of time. The number of problems that are computable are constrained by processing power, speed and memory.
### Problem Recognition
Requirements of a solution may be defined by:
 - analysing strengths and weakness against current solutions
 - considering types if data involved including inputs, outputs, stored data and amount of data
### Problem Decomposition
Once a problem is clearly defined it is continually broken down into smaller problems that can be solved within a single subroutine, when these subroutines are combined they solve the original problem. Benefits to doing this include:
 - Certain sub-problems may have **pre-coded soloutions from previous projects or libraries**.
 - Problem decompostion makes the project **easier to manage** and allows personel with specialisms work on sub-routines that match their ability. 
 - It also allows for people to work on seperate subprograms allowing it to be **developed in paralled**
 - It can be individually designed and tested making it **easier to idetify, locate and mitgate errors** and then combine for the dinal solution.
 Without problem decomposition , testing can only be carried out once the entire application has been produced therefore making it hard to pinpoint errors.
### Divide and Conquer
- **Stage 1 (Divide)** half the size of the problem evey iteration
- **Stage 2 (Conquer)** solve each sub-problem
- **Stage 3 (Merge)** the sub-programs are recombined to form the final solution
Benifits of the divide and conquer method:
 - with each iteration the size of the problem in one sub-routine becomes half which **simplifies very complex problems**
Drawback of the divide and conquer method:
- As divide and conquer mostly makes use of recursion, it faces the same problems that all recursive functions face: **stack overflow** will cause the program to crash and large programs are very **difficult to trace**.
### Use of abstraction
#### Representational Abstraction
This is a powerful technique whereby a problem is distilled from all the **excessive detail**. The more pure problem usually is already solved allowing programmers to use libraries and old sub routines to code the problem. This also means that idividual components of the problem can be worked on by different people allowing it to be **developed in parallel**.
#### Abstraction by Generalistion
Like representational abstraction it takes away unnecessary details, but then this allows sub_routines that are similar to be programmed using the same/similarr code reducing the time and human resources used on it.

### Backtracking
The concept of backtracking is that you keep making decision until one is wrong, then you backtrack to last correct decision. This can be seen in solving a maze.

### Data Mining 
Data mining is a technique used to identify patterns in big data where other tradition methods would fail due to the scale of big data. It is used to spot trends or corrilation that is not immmediately obvious.

**Interactable Problem** - A problem that would take and unreasonable amount of time to solve

### Heuristics
This is used for **interactable problems**, which means the soloution found is not completely accurate or complete however for the purpose of the code it is **good enough**.

### Performance Modelling 
This is a way around pratical testing of a program buy simulting the inputs to test whether the outputs are correct. For example test airplane software is **easier, cheaper and safer** to modell it before any practical testing. This allows a programmer to assess the **capabilities of a system** and whether it is **safe to implement**.

### Pipelining
This is where a problem is split into individual subprograms that feed into one another, the first subprogram gets the input from where ever- processes it then outputs it to the second sub program this continues on untill the last subprogram. These sub-programs can be developed in parallel.

### Visualisation
This method presents data in a way that is easier to understand. It makes it possible to identify trends that were otherwise not obvious. (mostly applies to statical data)

